MOST IMP - DO practice of 1 scenario based question everyday, do practically if possible if not possible then find solution and make list of questions and answers of such questions


1)Must Read devops scenario based questions- https://medium.com/@azizulmaqsud/devops-real-time-interview-questionnaire-along-with-the-best-answers-a4ca48dcad50
2)Must Read devops scenario based questions- https://medium.com/@Techie1/devops-real-time-scenarios-part-1-edf2d298e2ef

Most important - Project scenario, security, issues in production, what is role in all tools?



Interview 1:
Link - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DJF0JLvf5Ok
which branching strategy you used in git?
how types of conflicts you get in git?
what is cicd?
write sample jenkins file and explain?
what is docker?
difference between ADD and COPY in docker? which is good to used?
difference between ENTRYPOINT and CMD?
what is dockerfile?
write dockerfile and explain?
How to go inside the container?
explain kubernetes architecture?
what is docker swarm?
difference between kubernetes and docker swarm?
Which services you used in aws?
It is possible to recover last private key?
what you do if you loss the key(private key)?
How you connect your private subnet with the public subnet?
types of permission in linux?
how to check running process in linux?
how to check ram uses or available in linux(cmd)?


Interview 2:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4EmBd4UbPfs
Introduction
difference between ci and cd?
we have to create pipeline in jenkins which have 10 different stages and based on input need to execute stage not every stage?
difference between ansible playbook and ansible role? have to created
when to use playbook and when to role?
what is docker home path/home directory when you install docker?
you are trigering dockerfile execution using the jenkins pipeline , yesterday its starting fine but today its fail? but if you check server space it is ok, but still it showing space issue?
write docker file?
difference between entrypoint and cmd?
explain architecture of kubernetes and components?
can we deploy container in the controller plane?how?
types of services in kubernetes?
how to do?->i have to create 2 server in aws in both the machine i want internet, server 1 is open for everone, server 2 not open for everone, if anyone wants to connect to server 2, need to connect server 1 and then server 1 connects to server2?
is it possible to run any virtual machine in aws without connecting to vpc
i am connecting using pem file to login to server and i lost my pem file, but i want to use the data from server?
what is purpose of route table?
explain any 3 policies in route53?
what is geolocation routing?
difference between vertical and horizontal autoscaling?
is it possible to configure communication between two servers in aws those are having only private attachments?



Interview 3:seen upto 5 minutes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7yLmfyGpWfU&list=PLjHnA84niff78nO_6RzJ8gb66rvZc2KEq&index=2
developer not able to login the server how you troubleshoot the issue?
what is 127.0.0.1?
characteristics of public and private subnets?
on which services you have experiance?
how much experiance you have on python?
what is cloudfront?
questions on cloudfront?
types of loadbalancer?
difference between 3 loadbalancer?
what is use of target group?
if we want to encrypt the traffic in the node level? At time - 13:00
do you have any experiance i kineses stream?
Do you have experiance in terraform share screen and write code? At time 16
difference between operating system and container?
do you have experiance creating dockerfile?
difference between cmd and entrypoint?
suppose python application is running on linux box ec2 instance, application connected to database mongob inside the container , i dont want to use any service, how you establish the connectionn between application and database?
rate yourself kubernetes?
explain architecture of kubernetes?
write deployment or manifest file? scenario is given? at time 34(see this one)
difference types of service?
which serice is secure to use?
have experiance you on ingress? nginx ingress, alb ingress
difference between label and annotation?
what is pod affinity and node affinity? how you define it?
how shift traffic from 1 node to another node? there is pod a and pod b? at time 44
experiance in jenkins?
what are stages in cicd pipeline?
what is artifact, artifactory something not sure?
you work on any testing tools?
how you create master slave architecture on jenkins?how to make slave of master?
have experiance on deployment strategies?
rate on linux?
how to get running process?
cpu utilization report from last one hour how can i get ?
tell me some 20 linux cmds?
awk cmd?


Interview 4:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HpX6_hdB3a0&list=PLjHnA84niff78nO_6RzJ8gb66rvZc2KEq&index=3
Introduction
How good you in lambda?
difference between s3 and interface gateway?
nat gateway scenario questions? at time 5
types of nat gateway?
familier with ansible and terraform?
i need to copy the file from working machine(node) to my local machine where i executing my playbook , so what module you used in ansible?
if i want to copy the same file from one location to another location on worker node? how to do
while writing ansible file i need to pick the ip adresses of nodes , what  is module or parameter we need to include?
what is use of providers like terraform?
what is use of state file in terraform?
what is use of null resource in terraform?
in ansible any playbook you written?
what is playbook?
which monitoring tools you used?
how you set the alerting system?
what you done in monitoring?
how we are going to specify the resouce location and compose in compose file?
have ideas about nagios?
i have swarm cluster with some 3 managers and 5 workers, i need to deploy one of the service in worker number 4 only? how you specify?
i need to dockerfile after one the image was build, while executing it the docker image should run as non-root user? At time 21
wwhat exactly cmd to in dockerfile?
how can we use the dockerfile with another dockerfile .... at time 22-25 see
cmd for i need to get ip adress attached to the dns name?
have any experiance on load balancer?
why we use HA proxy?
what algorithm we use in HA proxy?
what is your team size in devops?
what is your role in devops?
what is your project and what is you role in that?
questions on project? at time 31
what namespace do in kubernetes?
difference between the hardlinks and softlinks?
what was swap space?
how to achive the autoscaling in kubernetes?
difference between continuous deployment and continuous integretion?
what was branching strategies you used in your organization?
i need to take clone of 1 repo but in repository i have 3 branches, i need to take a clone particular branch on my local machine, how can we do that?
difference between git fetch and git pull?
difference between active and pachive checking idos?
what types databases used?
if i want to lock a terraform state file, you can we lock it?
if i want to get the docker logs on grafana dashboard? logs of pods on grafana?

Interview 5:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VKXIH_eJHgM&list=PLjHnA84niff78nO_6RzJ8gb66rvZc2KEq&index=6
Introduction
What is your role in your current project?
experiance on programmin language?
questions on array? at time 3
What you done in shel scripting?
questions at time 4 , scenario upto 4-8
explain Syntax of dockerfile?
what is expose and what is use of expose?
we have to explicitly write expose inside our docker image? at time 9
what is use of publish?
tell me docker run cmd? what is -p , fullform of p , -p is publish
what is volume in docker?
what the mount actually it does?
scenario at 14
do you know how to write jenkins file?
what is choice parameter?
do you know the parameter in jenkins
inf cmd in the jenkins file?
integration of jenkins with sso?
what is slave in jenkins?
what is kube-config file?
scenario at time 19-22 must see?
what is pods?
what is containard? containerD
what kind of daatabase kubernetes uses?
what is etcd? what type of database it is?
difference between configmap and secrete?
when i use secrete it means it already encrypted? not encrypted then what secrete do actually?
scenario at time 24
hashicorp vault scenario at 26 see must
do you know what is concept is init container?
what is persistant volume and how it is different from docker volume?
claim from where, from where this persistant volume comming from?
what is concept of storage class in ebs?



Interview 6:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RuXjaZEAgVk&list=PLjHnA84niff78nO_6RzJ8gb66rvZc2KEq&index=5
Introduction
difference between git fetch and git pull
how to create branch in your existing project
how you revert commit
questions on azure
difference between feacher branching and release branching
how agile methodology differ from devops?
how you automate testing in devops lifecycle
tell some importants devops kps
postmortem meeting in devops(Devops postmortem meeting)?
some repetative issues comming, how your team coordinating how we can eliminate it in future you discuss or not?
difference between continuos integration and continuos delivery?
ansible playbook and adhoc cmds?
done grafana and prometheus?
advantages and disadvantages of grafana and prometheus?
how can have backup for grafana dashboard?
it is possible to use grafana with prometheus?
how does aws grafana works?
scenario at time 14:30
most importants responsibility of devops engineer
scenario 18: upto end see must


Interview 7: total scenario based
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WtvXdT8Jt14&list=PLjHnA84niff78nO_6RzJ8gb66rvZc2KEq&index=7
deployment strategy?
how you scan image?
sonarqube questions?
scp cmd
apim manage server



prepare this first most importants questions->  What is your role in jenkins, kubernetes, ansible, terraform


Interview 8:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m6XRdktDCyk&list=PLjHnA84niff78nO_6RzJ8gb66rvZc2KEq&index=8
Expain current project? which services are you using in project
you have 5 vpcs and we have to connect this onpremises?
transit gateway?
difference bwtn security grp and NACL?
you have ec2 instance you telnet to instace but you are unable to connect to instace?
firewalls knowledge?
i want block outbound traffic in vpc?
what is stateless and stateful in security grps?
scenario at time 8
if you have s3 bucket in one account and another s3 bucket in another account, if you want to replicate all object from one bucket to another , how to do it?
what you know in IAM?
experiance with infrastructure tools?
scenario 13:30 upto 20
used any terraform functions?
what is your role in jenkins?
which type of pipeline you used?explain declarative pipeline
purpose of agent?
build a docker image in delcarative pipeline how you can do it?
complex docker file that you work?
what is size of your image? at time 24
why you chose ubuntu as a base image
where you store this images?
how you run this images?
knowledge in kubernetes?
what is deployment and service?see video from 30 to 42 minutes




https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DJF0JLvf5Ok
0:00 introduce yourself
02:14 what is branching strategy in git ? which git branching strategy you are using?
04:40 explain what kinds of conflicts you get and how you resolve them?
06:25 Can you explain what is CICD ?
08:07  do you have knowledge on writing jenkinsfile? and can you write sample jenkins file and explain it?
13:12 how to schedule builds in jenkins?
14:49 what is docker?
15:23 what is the difference between ADD and COPY?
17:01 difference between ENTRYPOINT and CMD?
18:49 what is dockerfile?
19:58 can you write sample dokerfile and explain it?
23:03 how to go inside the running container?
24:04 explain kubernetes architecture?
28:14 what is the difference between kubernetes and docker swarm?
30:26 Is it possible to recover your lost private key ?
32:30 How can you connect your EC2 Instance if you lost your key?
34:03 How you can connect a private subnet with a public subnet ?
34:32 How many types of permissions are there ? What is chmod ?
36:33 Command to check running process ?
36:52 Other than Ps do we have any other command?
37:25 What is the Command to check RAM usage?
39:02 do you have any questions for me?




Others:
When we have branches in github, what is compare and pull request in github?
Storage gateway?
fargate?
what is connection draining? whay does it do?
what is image pull policy
difference between deployment and demonsets?
types of sequeal and nosequeal databases?
problems faced by you in projects? devops ,aws


















